# Installing C Compiler & IDE

For beginners, Turbo C/C++ stands out as the most popular Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for C language
programming. This tutorial guides you through the installation steps for Turbo C and also introduces alternative IDEs
suitable for C programming.

## What is an IDE?

An IDE, or Integrated Development Environment, is comprehensive software that incorporates a code editor and the
compiler of the programming language. This eliminates the need for separate installations, providing a seamless coding
experience. IDEs typically offer features like file handling, edit options, and support for various programming language
environments.

Many IDEs support the installation of third-party plugins, enhancing their functionality.

Turbo C is a renowned IDE designed for writing code in the C language. It includes features to compile and run code
within the IDE. Turbo C++ is an upgraded version that supports both C and C++ language syntax.

## Installing Turbo C/C++

Follow these steps to install Turbo C for C programming:

<procedure>
    <step>Download the Zip file from the given link to get the Turbo C installer.
<tabs>
    <tab title="Windows">
<a href="https://ia801702.us.archive.org/34/items/turbo-cfor-mac-turbo-c.net/Turbo.C.3.2%20for%20windows%20%28turbo-c.net%29.zip">Download Turbo C++ for windows</a>
    </tab>
    <tab title="MacOS">
        <a href="https://ia601702.us.archive.org/34/items/turbo-cfor-mac-turbo-c.net/Turbo%20C%2B%2Bfor%20mac%20%28turbo-c.net%29.dmg">Download Turbo C++ for MacOS</a>
    </tab>
    <tab title="Linux">
<a href="https://archive.org/download/turbo-cfor-mac-turbo-c.net/TURBOC3%20for%20linux%20%28turbo-c.net%29.zip">Download Turbo C++ for Linux</a>
    </tab>
</tabs>
</step>
<step>
Use WinRar or similar software to unzip the downloaded file.
</step>
<step>
For Windows OS users, click on the .msi file to initiate the installation. Follow the InstallShield Wizard for Turbo
C/C++, click <shortcut>Next</shortcut> and let the installation proceed.
</step>
<step>
Once the installation is complete, check <shortcut>Launch the program</shortcut> checkbox (if not checked) and click <shortcut>Finish</shortcut>. You can
then create a desktop shortcut or use the Start menu to open Turbo C/C++.
</step>
</procedure>

## Other IDEs for C Programming

While Turbo C/C++ is recommended for beginners, there are alternative IDEs available, such as:

- **Dev-C++:** [Download Dev-C++](https://sourceforge.net/projects/orwelldevcpp/)
- **Eclipse:** [Download Eclipse IDE](https://www.eclipse.org/downloads/)

For beginners, Turbo C/C++ is the suggested choice.

# Conclusion

This tutorial covered the definition of an IDE, introduced IDEs for C programming, and provided a step-by-step guide for
installing Turbo C/C++. Whether you choose Turbo C or explore other IDEs, this documentation aims to facilitate a smooth
start to your C language programming journey.